What is JavaScript?
- this is a technology that we use to create websites like amazone or youtube. 
- in a computure we are using a website.  
- in a phone we are using an App.

There are 3 Technologies that we use to create websites. 
each one has a perpuse in creating a website: 
1. html - create the content of the website. it creates all the buttons, the text and the images.  
2. css - chages the appearance of the website. using css we can make our website look nice. 
3. js - makes our website interactive. so wihtout js we can't really click on a buttons and our website will do nothing. 


this course is focus on JavaScript. 


Setup for starting to work with JS:
1. install web browser (lets us view websites) - we will use chrom. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------
we're going to start by learning what exactly is JS and how des it work. 
the easy way to understand js is think that we are giving insturctions to a computer, and then the computer follows our instrunctions.  
the best way to learn this is to jump in and give it a try. 
1. first open google chrome. 
2. next, type: "supersimple.dov/js-basics and press enter. 
3. to give instuction, right click, click inspect, and then go to console. 
4. let's give the first instrunctions. type: alert('hello'); --> this is instructions to give a pop up window in our browser. 
5. let's do it again. type: alert('good job!'); 

Terminology:
now let's lern some Terminology. the instuctions we give to our computer are called: "code". 
when we press enter and the computer follows our instructions this is called: "running the code"
there are many programming languages.
-- it is similar to human languages (but for code). for example: JS, python and Java. 

Console in browser:
Now that we are understand the Terminology, we can do more stuff. 
let's learn about Math. 
1. go back to the console. 
2. type: 2 + 2 --> this is insturctions to calculate math. 

let's learn about document.
1. go back to the console. 
2. type: document.body.innerHTML = 'hello'; press enter. 
3. it remove all the things in the page and replaces it with the text hello. 
in this example we use js to modify the webpage. 
modify the web page is one of the most important features of JS. 
 
syntax:
Syntax are the rules that we have to follow when using a programming languages. like grammer. 
in programming, we have to foolow the rules of syntax exactly. 
for example if in the console we type: alert'hello'); then we will get a SyntaxError. 

Summary for this lesson:
1. JS is giving instuctions to a computer.
2. wrote JS code. 
2. run our code using the console.
3. syntax.
